As long as we live in Satan's world, all of us will face situations that can rob us of our peace.
Regaining that peace can be difficult, but not impossible.
In this video, we will hear from three sisters and two couples who will speak candidly about their trials and how they struggle to cope with them.
But in spite of what they have endured, please take note of their smiles, their joy, what they did to regain or maintain their peace.
And take special note of how Jehovah helped them.
The governing body knows that many of you are suffering circumstances not unlike the ones we will hear about.
And they trust that the examples in this video will help each of you to maintain your peace as you endure various trials.
Brothers and sisters all over the world are facing natural disasters, economic collapse, illness, persecution, despite all that, they keep joy and peace.
I can learn a lot from them.
My name is Antoineette. I live here in Las Vegas, Nevada with my super mom and my trouble making sister.
Family and friends have always been important to me.
As a child, I lived with my mom and dad, and I was very close to my dad's side. The family was very loving, unified, and fun.
I was pretty happy.
But Ari was starting to feel the effects of my cancer. We just didn't know what it was really.
One day I was okay and the next day I started feeling bad, you know.
In my childhood, I played an unusual game. I would catch insects, put them in a jar, and then bring them home.
Then I would get books, such as a criminal procedural code. Open them up and start judging one of the books.
I would play the role of investigator and judge at the same time.
I was born into a family where everyone, starting with my grandparents, was either wearing an officer's uniform or a judge's robe.
That's why I had this strong sense of justice. But in 1989, my mother was in a tragic car accident.
She got severe burns on her face, hands, and body.
Then my father, I'd seen my mom's condition, decided to leave us.
It was at that moment, I guess, that my world, my ideals, they crumbled.
As a little kid, I always wanted one big happy family.
Once we moved to New York for my treatment, I no longer had that big family bond anymore.
While I was feeling back then, in New York was just sadness. Never really peace.
Well here in California, we're used to fires. But when I got the call to evacuate that morning, I never knew by that evening,
the whole town of Paradise would be gone.
Just before the fire, we had the needs of the congregation, where they instructed us of what to do in the case of a disaster.
I had the truck full of gas. I had my gold bag ready, and I had a map of where I was going.
I was ready. The brothers also in their instructions said to obey the traffic instructors.
The instructor told us to turn right, and I didn't want to turn right.
But they said, obey them, so I turned right.
Though I thought it'd be really bad. The smoke got darker and darker, and finally it got black.
You couldn't see anything.
My mom always told me I've always been a caregiver ever since I was a little girl.
It was just part of who I was. I don't like to see people suffer. It's very difficult for me.
I remember when I first started working as a nurse. I would always cry.
I cried. Literally, I cried every day that I had to go to work.
Not only was I overwhelmed being a new nurse, but also I was bowing my depression.
In 2017, I was the treasurer for a prestigious bank in Nicaragua, and I was the father of a one-year-old son.
We were very happy, but then I lost my job.
So I said, I have the experience, and Jehovah will help me find another job.
Something similar, and I kept looking for jobs, but doors kept closing.
I felt very tense. It made me feel very useless. I can't even provide for my family.
It was something very difficult for me.
These dear brothers and sisters face serious challenges.
They may have had moments when they felt like job, when he said, I loathe my life.
That is not an unusual human emotion.
Sometimes things in life don't work out as we had hoped, and it can hurt us deeply.
Does this mean that we are helpless victims of our circumstances?
Not at all.
Please pay close attention, and take note of why we can say that Margaret, Felix, Miguel, Nikki, and Antoinette are not helpless victims.
To the contrary, they are conquerors.
As you watch and listen, look for specific actions they took to maintain their peace.
And please, give thoughtful attention to ways that you can imitate their faith.
Growing up, I wondered, why does a supreme judge, God, allowing justice and suffering?
And inside of me, I had this need to restore justice. It was such a burning desire within me.
And with that in mind, I moved to Russia to stay with my sister.
She started to study the Bible, and was overflowing with the truth.
We talked for hours to lay into the night, so that's when my special relationship with Jehovah began.
That's when I got a taste of what it's like to have a caring father.
It had been a while since I was able to feel that.
My baptism day was very exciting.
The spiritual family I inherited was very vast.
You can instantly feel the love.
I got baptized, and it seemed like miracles happened one after the other.
We had a great life.
And then the persecution started with Brother Christensen, and then there was a ripple effect of arrests.
One after the other, then it was our turn.
In June of 2018, a huge group of armed men came to us to our home.
They represented the ideals of my childhood.
But now these people, this judicial system, became the source of injustice to me.
I was sitting in a cage, the same way my bugs used to be in a jar.
I guess I felt like they did in your head.
At that moment, when you hear the verdict that you'll stay in prison,
it's like you've been knocked unconscious.
You've been hit in the head with something, and there's just a ringing sound in your ears.
And so, I was taken away in handcuffs.
Of course, I wasn't in the best mood.
But then, the doors of the elevator opened up, and in front of us,
a lot of brothers and sisters clapping their hands as hard as they could,
and some were crying, but not crying because they felt sorry for me.
They cried because they loved us.
And because they were proud of us, that's what always happens.
When you're just about to lose all your strength,
Jehovah does that something for you that gives you a second wind.
And so, the applause, the love, the tears, the shouts hanging there,
everything will be okay.
They gave me a second wind.
The renewed strength that could run the next part of the race.
One of the guards was so surprised that he said,
no, that's some support you've got.
Yeah.
Without friends, I would be very lonely.
I would constantly be focusing on my illness.
The day I met Marissa was at a convention.
She's a really great friend, a spiritual friend.
When she takes me to my hospital appointments, we would eat out.
I think food is just the common language between everyone.
When you talk about food, you know, like,
yes, we have something to talk about.
I would be excited when she takes me to my hospital appointment.
She always makes me laugh.
She always helps me have a good time, no matter what.
Again, friends really help encourage me.
Proverbs 17 and 17 says,
a true friend shows love at all times
and is a brother who is born for times of distress.
And I have seen this come true in my life.
When I lost my job at the bank,
well, I felt very depressed, troubled, tense,
and I have a good friend that I can talk to.
And when I told him how I was feeling,
he told me, look Miguel,
don't look for the same line of work.
Maybe what you need to do is make a change in your life.
Why don't you find some simple work outside of an office for a time
that can help you to keep your eye simple
and allow you to provide for your family?
I watched my wife make bread for our family,
and one day I told her,
I'm going to make that bread, but not for our family.
I'm going to make it to sell.
So she told me, no, are you crazy?
It was a big change, right?
From having a position at a bank
and handling a lot of money to selling on the street.
So I told her, look, I'm going to put this hat on,
and I put like a chef's hat on.
And I told her, I'll be back in less than an hour,
whether I sell or not, and that's what happened.
And to her surprise, I came back without any bread.
So when I got ready to leave the second time to sell,
she said, okay, go, but leave the hat here.
I also started to iron clothes for people in their homes,
and it looked strange because normally where we live,
that type of work is done by a woman.
But for a man to go and iron clothes at someone's home,
you don't see that, but I didn't want to just sit back
with my arms crossed and see what would happen.
No, I had to put my hands to work
to earn a living for my family.
So I would preach one day, and the next day I would iron clothes.
The next day I would preach, and the day after that I would go out
and sell bread.
So my mind was always occupied on doing something,
either for the kingdom or my family.
And that helped me a lot.
I was feeling so sad.
I really needed Jehovah's help to figure out
what was going on with me.
And I remember the 2009 article
about depression came out.
And I realized, okay, Jehovah, you're telling me,
this is what I have.
So now that I realize I have this,
I got to figure out how I can manage it.
So I changed my eating habits.
I started exercising a lot more.
I realized that exercising and eating healthy
really, really did help.
Also, I made a journal,
and I made different sections of the different aspects
of my depression that I dealt with.
Each section I would put scriptures,
I would put articles,
and the illustrations, the pictures.
They speak, they speak a lot without saying anything.
Jehovah shares us.
Jehovah cares.
After some time in prison,
they transferred me to a different cell.
And it were inmates who followed the orders of the investigators.
They did everything they could to other inmates
to make life unbearable.
Why did they do this?
To break a person,
so that they would start to collaborate with the investigators,
confess to everything,
and then be able to get transferred to another area.
1373.
Trust in Jehovah,
and do what is good.
I said,
Jehovah, please help me to stay loyal to you.
Please help me.
My prayers were really simple.
Actually, like two words,
Jehovah help.
Despite how they treated me,
when I dealt with others,
I tried to treat them with kindness.
These people,
they made life uncomfortable, unbearable.
But when they were treated kindly,
they started to soften.
They began to treat me differently.
When I was being transferred out of that cell,
the inmate that ran the area,
called me over to him and said,
come sit beside me.
And I sat down, then he said,
if anybody in this prison touches you,
tell them that I'll come looking for him.
Then he said,
get his things.
He told the other prisoners,
the cell doors opened,
and the guards saw a crowd of inmates,
graphing my things and putting them out into the hallway.
I left the cell without having to carry a thing.
The guard quietly closed the door.
And before the inmates returned to their cells,
they even said goodbye.
Hug me and said, hang in there.
You're going to be okay.
They went into the cell and the guard closed the door and asked me,
boy, how long have you been in there?
I sit three weeks.
He said, well normally people leave this cell beaten up
and they're thrown out by the other inmates.
They have to carry their own things,
and that's if the other inmates haven't thrown their stuff out the door.
He couldn't believe what had just happened.
That's Jehovah.
Exercising, changing my diet,
the publications,
journaling.
That was my lifeline.
That really actually helped me for a long time.
But it came to a point where it stopped working as effectively.
I remember getting ready dressed for the meeting.
And I was fine.
Getting dressed for the meeting,
about to walk off the door.
But I couldn't.
There was this overwhelming fear that came over me.
An overwhelming sadness that came over me.
And I just lost it.
I just started crying.
I couldn't get myself together.
It was bad.
It got really bad.
My depression got really bad.
So it was very difficult for me to approach the brothers
to ask them for help.
But at that time, I knew that if I didn't,
that something bad would happen.
So I decided, you know what?
I'm going to ask for a shepherding call with my brothers,
because I never talked about my depression with the elders at all.
This was my first time speaking with them.
And there was one brother, one of the elders,
who also battled depression.
And he suggested,
have you thought about seeking medical help?
Seeking professional help was something I never wanted to do.
I thought that I didn't need to do it.
But sometimes there comes a point where you need additional help.
And what you're doing is not enough.
In this world, they make you feel like it's a bad thing
that depression is a dirty word,
or seeking medical help is something that you don't do.
But I realized also that seeking medical help
was part of my being able to worship Jehovah effectively.
That's me doing my part.
Not everyone needs to take that step,
but for me, this is what I need to do.
And I'm glad I did it,
because the fact that I've never felt this good in my life.
About a year later, we were released.
But my wife and I understood
that they could put me back in prison again.
So we needed to use a time until then to the fall
in the best way possible.
So what did we do?
Psalm 119, 165.
Abundant peace belongs to those who love your law.
We had family worship,
read the Bible, and prayed together.
That's how I spent my four months of freedom
then I was put into prison for three years.
When they told me about my cancer being gone,
I was really happy, I was ecstatic.
I was like, finally, I'm going to get to do normal things
that a kid, my age, should be able to do.
I don't need to be afraid or anxious anymore.
Unfortunately, I did relax again.
And basically right now, my private condition is,
there's nothing really more to do.
They're just waiting to let nature take its course, basically.
That's it.
Then Harmony was Ephesians chapter 4 verse 26.
I had to let myself process the news
and let myself be sad and angry.
Let yourself feel those feelings.
Do not try to repress them,
but you can control your thoughts and your actions.
Pretty much my whole life,
it hasn't revolved around my illness,
but I learned how to shift focus.
I just don't focus on myself all the time.
I focus on others.
They're trials that are different,
but just as hard.
You read the stories on JW.org in the newsroom.
The Russian brothers and sisters,
I pray for them constantly,
because they are going through a very tough time.
There is definitely more happiness in giving them receiving.
And in our situation, this proved true.
I would say this really helps to relieve your pain.
If you focus on yourself,
your pain gets worse.
When you focus on others,
and on their problems,
your pain lessons diminishes.
Until then,
I was so...
When I was told that we would talk with each other,
this was something very special for me.
Same for me too,
when the brothers told me as well,
about meeting you, I was really excited.
Thank you for your prayers on behalf of the brothers in Russia.
They are precious.
We can learn so much from you.
Thank you.
It's really nice that you can say that.
We've both been through very hard, many hardships.
I'm sure President was super hard.
You know, in prison,
as brothers had a saying,
if you ask,
how much worse can it get?
You won't have to wait long to find out.
Or in other words,
when you think, how much worse can it get
for sure something worse is bound to happen?
And when we received our sentence, we thought,
well, that's it.
That's the worst that could happen.
And then,
of course, it got worse.
Upon arrival at the prison,
we were beaten up.
And for hours, we were humiliated.
We thought, how much worse can it get?
Then the next day, we were told,
you're going to the punishment so,
we thought, well,
how much worse can it get?
At first, it started with one floor.
Then it went to another floor.
And then, the whole entire hospital,
every floor, had COVID patients.
That was some of the hardest nursing,
that I've ever done in my life.
And all my years of nursing.
And we lost a lot of good nurses,
that were right in the trenches with me,
that were in there doing their best.
We lost a lot of good people.
Even though I was on medication to help me,
it still didn't take the depression away.
You're like, what's the point?
I can't save anyone.
I can't help anyone.
It was devastating.
It truly, truly was devastating.
Have you ever felt, as Felix did,
when he asked, how much worse can it get?
Nevertheless, a spiritual person can see
each new challenge as an opportunity
to rely on Jehovah.
As we watch the concluding part of this video,
please take note of how Jehovah strengthened
these brothers and sisters,
and deepened their friendship with him.
Think about your own circumstances,
and the ways that Jehovah has helped you through trials,
and have full confidence that he will continue to do so.
And then I decided that I was going to stop asking
how worse it could get.
I asked Jehovah for endurance.
Enjoy for that day, just for that day.
And at those times, I just cry to Jehovah,
talk to Jehovah about how I'm feeling,
and just ask for his peace to help me to deal.
I've talked to Jehovah very intimately and personally,
but never like I have when I was so alone there.
I realized that I was going to die.
I asked Jehovah, if he saw enough good in me,
if he would just resurrect me,
that I'd love to be in his new world,
and see my husband again and my children.
And I thanked him so much for the life that I had.
And I felt such a peace that I never felt before.
And then I just knew was Jehovah getting me out.
The obedience, just doing what we were told,
it came from Jehovah, and it was so simple
that gave him something to bless, and it may have saved my life.
I just never wanted to be a burden on people,
but the brothers and sisters have come from all over the country
to work from this house, the other houses, all of them.
They may be feel wanted, and they may be feel loved.
To feel like Jehovah cared enough to give attention to you,
I just felt so unworthy in hearing all these people,
or here taking care of me, and you just look at them,
and then you think, I'm part of this organization.
I got to do better.
I got to be like them and make other people happy.
When I'm able to help people who are bottling depression,
I feel like Jehovah is using me in that way.
And it makes me happy that I can be of use to Jehovah.
It's good to feel, it's so nice to feel good again,
to feel happy again, to be able to smile,
to be able to take enjoyment in the small things
in Jehovah's creation, and just be happy that I'm alive.
So, yeah.
Now I have a stable job.
I work at a hardware store.
Man, I feel that peace.
The universities have made me stronger, and overall,
I have a much closer relationship with Jehovah,
but I'm still making bread.
And at home, yeah, I'm the one who wires the clothes.
After a while, I found out that I was being deported.
I remember getting off the train.
They took me through the back door,
but my wife, Genia, was standing at the main entrance.
She was on the phone, she couldn't see me.
She was looking at the main entrance.
And I threw my bag down, as I ran to her.
She could see from the corner of her eyes, someone was running.
She was a little confused, even scared.
And there I was, hugging the person I loved the most.
It was one of the most beautiful days of my life.
When I heard that you were praying for us
and for the brothers and sisters in Russia,
it really encouraged me and Felix.
It's such an example for me personally.
We mentioned it in our prayer yesterday.
Felix was saying that you are a great example
of how we need to genuinely care for our brothers and sisters.
We love you very much.
Goodbye.
Good night, Genia.
Good night, guys.
My cancer is uncurable,
but I know the cure isn't the new system, so that's the cure.
I like to imagine when that time happens, what will I be doing?
Obviously, I'm going to be jumping for joy
because I'm going to be rid of my cancer.
I'm going to enjoy food that we never really got to enjoy.
I'm going to have so many animals.
I'm going to make a house.
I'm going to learn how to make a house.
Peace in this world is not the absence of illness, danger, persecution,
or economic problems.
Peace in this world is listening to Jehovah's guidance,
praying to Jehovah constantly,
meditating on Jehovah's word, and his promises.
Peace in this world is also having good friends by our side
or having a good sense of humor.
What I've learned from all of this is peace isn't
from what's outside, from what's going on,
or what you're experiencing.
I've learned that peace is on the inside,
and that comes from Jehovah.
These examples we've just seen are of ordinary people with feelings like ours.
Yet they felt peace even when confronting serious trials.
How did they do it?
When Miguel lost his job, he kept his focus on serving Jehovah,
and he was not too proud to do humble work to provide for his family.
Margaret was prepared for a natural disaster,
and throughout her ordeal she prayed to Jehovah.
While struggling with depression,
Nikki did research using her publications
and asked for help from the elders.
Even when facing brutal persecution,
Felix showed kindness to his persecutors.
He knew that the way he responded would reflect Christian qualities.
And dear Antoinette, despite her diagnosis,
focuses not on herself, but on helping others.
As she said, the cure for her, as it is for all of us,
is God's kingdom, if you are experiencing trials.
Focus on what you can control.
Help others.
Be grateful and rely on Jehovah and his organization.
If you are not experiencing serious trials,
do what you can to prepare for them by building yourself up spiritually.
Do not be anxious.
Fear of what might happen is often worse than the trial itself.
Trust in Jehovah and be assured that he will never abandon his friends.
The dear brothers and sisters whom we've just listened to
are doing well spiritually.
We thank them for participating in these interviews.
We'd also like to thank all our brothers and sisters
working in the medical field who have gone the extra mile during this pandemic.
James 5-11 reads,
we consider happy those who have endured.
You have heard of the endurance of Job
and have seen the outcome Jehovah gave
that Jehovah is very tender in affection and merciful.
The blessings we receive by enduring trials
can strengthen us for the future
and help us to become the kind of person that Jehovah wants us to be.
The inner peace and joy we experience
is a gift from Jehovah.
As these brothers and sisters from around the world have reminded us,
we need never doubt that our wonderful Heavenly Father
will bless all those who continue loving Him.